feat: General documentation changes (#47)
godot-escoria/escoria-docs: getting_started/step_by_step/7_room_two.rst

.. image:: img/create_room_terrain_navpoly2.png
   :alt: Adding a NavPoly

* Use the editor window to draw a polygon. This polygon is the area in which
  the character can move around freely.

.. image:: img/create_room_terrain_createdpoly2.png
   :alt: View of the completed polygon on the background

Creating a light map
--------------------

For this room we're going to use a light map. As mentioned previously, light
maps are used to shade different areas of the room differently. In this room,
we have a lamp, so we want the player to be brightly lit when under it, and
less brightly lit when away from the light source.

The example light map provided is a very simple one with just 3 colours to make
it easier to demonstrate how the light map changes how the game character
looks, but you could replace it with one that uses a gradient to fade nicely
from white to mid-grey. Coloured ones can also be used to simulate things like
concert or traffic lights.

Copy the park_lightmap.png asset (link on the main step-by-step page) to the
room02 folder.

In the Godot GUI, select the ``ESCTerrain`` node, and set its light map to the

> park_lightmap.png texture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`park_lightmap.png` texture.
```

Create a second room
====================
So a one room game is a good start, but your adventure game will be a lot more

> interesting when there's other rooms to travel to. Lets create a park scene

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
interesting when there are other rooms to travel to. Let's create a park scene
```

> and join it to the pub scene so we can walk between them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and link it to the pub scene so we can walk between them.
```

As we've already created the first scene, follow the same steps you used on the

> :doc:`create a room <3_create_room>`.  page to create this scene.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:doc:`create a room <3_create_room>` page to create this scene.
```

* Create a NavigationPolygonInstance resource for the Navpoly parameter.

.. image:: img/create_room_terrain_navpoly2.png
   :alt: Adding a NavPoly

* Use the editor window to draw a polygon. This polygon is the area in which
  the character can move around freely.

.. image:: img/create_room_terrain_createdpoly2.png
   :alt: View of the completed polygon on the background

Creating a light map
--------------------

For this room we're going to use a light map. As mentioned previously, light
maps are used to shade different areas of the room differently. In this room,
we have a lamp, so we want the player to be brightly lit when under it, and
less brightly lit when away from the light source.

The example light map provided is a very simple one with just 3 colours to make
it easier to demonstrate how the light map changes how the game character
looks, but you could replace it with one that uses a gradient to fade nicely
from white to mid-grey. Coloured ones can also be used to simulate things like
concert or traffic lights.

Copy the park_lightmap.png asset (link on the main step-by-step page) to the
room02 folder.

> In the Godot GUI, select the ``ESCTerrain`` node, and set its Lightmap to the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the Godot GUI, select the ``ESCTerrain`` node, and set its light map to the
```

park_lightmap.png texture.

Create a doorway back to the pub room
-------------------------------------

> To link room 2 (the park) to room 1 (the pub), you will need an ESCexit. When

Reviewer 2: I'd link ESCExit to the API doc page here (see other pages for the syntax for this)

the player clicks this, it tells Escoria that you want to change rooms.

Under the ESCroom node, create an ESCexit node.

.. image:: img/create_room_esc_exit.png
   :alt: The ESC exit node.

> Set its Global ID to "exit_to_pub"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Set its Global ID to "exit_to_pub".
```

Create a CollisionPolygon2D as a child of the ESCexit. Use the editor window to
draw a rectangle covering the left-hand-edge of the park background. This
polygon is the area which will act like a "door" for the player to click on to
change rooms. (If the room had a doorway, you'd draw the polygon around the
door).

.. image:: img/create_room_park_exit.png
   :alt: The ESCexit polygon.

When the player clicks on the this area, Escoria needs to know what to do, for
this we will use a script. Firstly, Escoria will need to know where to make
the character walk to when the user clicks on this polygon to leave the room.
Create an ESClocation as a child of the ESCexit. Give this location the
``Global ID`` of "park_exit".

.. image:: img/create_room_exit_location.png
   :alt: The doorways exit point.

Now as in the previous examples, we need to link the ESCexit to a script.

> Create a doorway script

Reviewer 2: ESCExit is streamlined so you actually don't need that. Check out its doc: https://docs.escoria-framework.org/en/devel/api/ESCExit.html

You just need to set the target scene and can additionally set a "switch sound".

Author: So it does the change_scene command for you? If that's the case then the documentation page for ESCExit should explicitly say that (I've got an outstanding documentation issue raised where I mention that the ESCExit documentation needs more detail).
So if you can clarify the differences, I'll update both this documentation and the ESCExit documentation.
Am I right in saying that if the only thing you want to happen when you use a "door" is a "change_scene" command (and optional sound) you use "ESCexit", but if you wanted something else to happen (e.g. animate an NPC, say something as you leave etc) you'd use an ESCItem with the exit button selected and attach a script?

Reviewer 2: Yes. I thought it would be understandable by the name and parameters, but you're right. 🙂 

And yes, that's a good description when to use or not to use ESCExit.

Author: Rewrote this section to use ESCExit rather than ESCItem so this should now  be correct.

In any text editor (or the Godot editor) create a ESC file in the park folder
and call it "park_left_side_exit.esc"

In the Godot editor, select the ``ESCexit`` and set the "Esc script" to point
at "park_left_side_exit.esc".

In park_left_side_exit.esc, add a new ``:use`` event to our ESC file and use
the  ``change_scene`` command to make the game switch back from this park
room to the pub room.

.. code-block::

    :use
    change_scene "res:///rooms/pub.tscn"

Set up a doorway in the pub room
--------------------------------
If you played the game now, you'd find it was a bit broken. The game would
start in the pub room, but you'd have no way to leave it to get to the park.
If you were able to get to the park and tried to get back, the game wouldn't
know where in the pub to place your character. Lets fix this by creating
a doorway in the pub and make it so that using it takes you to the park, and
clicking on the edge of the park brings you back to the pub's doorway.

The process here will be the same process we followed in the park.

Load your pub.tscn scene in the Godot editor.

Create an ESCexit as a child of the ESCRoom. Give it a Global ID of
"pub_door".

> Create a new ESC file and call it "pub_exit.esc" In pub_exit.esc, add a

Reviewer 2: Same as above. Not required.

new ``:use`` event to our ESC file and use the  ``change_scene`` command
to make the game switch from this pub room to the park.

.. code-block::

    :use
    change_scene "res:///rooms/park.tscn"

> Set the player locations in the pub

Reviewer 2: Isn't this all handled by the previous section? 🤔

when you click the door to leave the pub.

.. hint::

   Make sure the ESClocation is inside the walkable area polygon.

.. image:: img/create_room_pub_door_location.png
   :alt: The location the player will appear at when they come in the door.

Configure the change between rooms
----------------------------------
When the player clicks the doorway in the pub (or the left hand side
of the park), the character should now walk to the room's exit. What we now
need is them to change to the other room and appear at the location's we've
just created.

Create a file room_pub.esc and attach it as the ``ESC script`` on the pub
room's ESCRoom. This is the script the room will open when it starts.

.. image:: img/create_room_pub_script.png
   :alt: The script the room will open when it starts.

Add the following code

.. code-block::

    > [eq ESC_LAST_SCENE room_park]
       teleport player pub_doorway
       # Set player look left
       set_angle player 180

This code says
1) Check if the last room you were in (ESC_LAST_SCENE) is (eq) "room_park"
2) If so, teleport the player to the ESClocation called "pub_doorway"
3) Then make the player face left (set_angle player 180)

> 

Reviewer 2: Please remove this line.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

"target_scene" to change to, and optionally, a "switch sound" (the sound to
play when changing rooms).

For both ``ESCExit`` and ``ESCItem`` nodes:
* A child ``CollisionPolygon2D`` node is used to define where the player needs
to click to activate the exit.
* When the exit is activated, the character will automatically walk to a
``ESCLocation`` node that is a child of the ``ESCItem`` / ``ESCExit`` node.

Create a doorway back to the pub room
-------------------------------------

* Create an ``ESCExit`` node as a child of the room and give it a "Global ID"

Under the ESCroom node, create an ESCexit node.

.. image:: img/create_room_esc_exit.png
   :alt: The ESC exit node.

Set its Global ID to "exit_to_pub".

* Create a CollisionPolygon2D for the exit

Create a CollisionPolygon2D as a child of the ESCexit. Use the editor window to
draw a rectangle covering the left-hand-edge of the park background. This
polygon is the area which will act like a "door" for the player to click on to
change rooms. (If the room had a doorway, you'd draw the polygon around the
door instead).

.. image:: img/create_room_park_exit.png
   :alt: The ESCexit polygon.

* Create an ESCLocation

> When the player clicks on the exit's collision polygon, Escoria needs to know
> what to do.  Firstly, Escoria will need to know where to make the character
> walk to when the user clicks on this polygon to leave the room.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the player clicks on the exit's collision polygon, Escoria needs to know
where to make the character walk to leave the room.
```

Reviewer 2: There's no "secondly" to be found. 😄

``Global ID`` of "park_exit".
Move the ``ESCLocation`` to the left hand side of the park somewhere on the
road/path. This will be where the character walks to to leave the park.

.. hint::

   Make sure the ESClocation is inside the walkable area navigation polygon.

.. image:: img/create_room_exit_location.png
   :alt: The doorways exit point.

* Set up the tooltip for the exit

When you put the mouse over the exit, you want the tooltip in the UI to tell
you what object your mouse is over. Additionally you want to set the
interaction with this exit that will happen by default to make the experience
better for the player. Under ``Tooltip name`` put "Exit to pub", and under
``Default Action`` put "use".

.. image:: img/create_room_esc_exit2.png
   :alt: Settings for the ESCExit node.

* Set the destination scene for the exit

Further down in the ESCExit's settings, select the Target scene. Clicking this
will take you to a file explorer where you can choose the room you want the
character to be sent to when the player clicks on this exit. Locate the
pub scene and select that. (If you had a noise to play like a door closing when

> the player used this exit, you would use the "Switch sound" field to set it).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the player used this exit, you would use the "Switch sound" parameter to set it).
```

.. image:: img/create_room_esc_exit3.png
   :alt: Scene setting for the ESCExit node.

Set up a doorway in the pub room
--------------------------------
If you played the game now, you'd find it was a bit broken. The game would
start in the pub room, but you'd have no way to leave it to get to the park.
If you were somehow able to get to the park and tried to get back, the game
wouldn't know where in the pub to place your character.

Lets fix this by creating a doorway in the pub and make it so that using it
takes you to the park, and clicking on the edge of the park brings you back to
the pub's doorway.

The process here will be the same process we followed in the park.

Load your pub.tscn scene in the Godot editor.

Create an ESCexit as a child of the ESCRoom. Give it a Global ID of
"pub_door". Set its ``Target scene`` to park.tscn. This will send the player to
the park when they click the door.

Create a CollisionPolygon2D as a child of the ESCExit. Draw the
polygon around the doorway. This defines where you can click to
activate the exit to leave the pub and go to the park.

.. image:: img/create_room_pub_door.png
   :alt: The polygon you click to leave the room.

> When you created the pub room you set a ESClocation for the character's

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you created the pub room you set an ESClocation for the characters

> starting point. If you placed it, for example, at the bottom of the
> stairs, while this is fine as a location to put the character when starting a
> new game. If the player comes back into the pub from the park through, they
> should be at the doorway rather than appear at the bottom of the stairs. We
> therefore need an ``ESCLocation`` at the doorway that we can send them to.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
starting point (e.g. at the bottom of the stairs). If the player comes back into the pub from the park 
scene, they should be at the doorway rather than appear at the bottom of the stairs. We
therefore need an ``ESCLocation`` at the doorway that we can send them to.
```

Create a new ESClocation as a child of the pub's ESCExit. Set its
``Global ID`` to "pub_exit". This will be where the user appears
when they come into the pub from the park. Place its marker
just under the doorway. This wil also be where the character walks to
when you click the door to leave the pub.

.. hint::

   Make sure the ESClocation is inside the walkable area polygon.

.. image:: img/create_room_pub_door_location.png
   :alt: The location the player will appear at when they come in the door.

Configure the change between rooms
----------------------------------
What we now need is to tell Escoria to move the character to the correct
location when they change between rooms. For this we will use a script that
will run when the room first loads. It will check which room the player has
come from and immediately send them to the correct ``ESCLocation``.

> Create a text file room_pub.esc (use any text editor you like) and attach it as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a new ESC script room_pub.esc and attach it as
```

the ``ESC script`` on the pub room's ``ESCRoom`` node. This is the script the
room will open when it starts.

.. image:: img/create_room_pub_script.png
   :alt: The script the room will open when it starts.

Add the following code to room_pub.esc

.. code-block::

    > [eq ESC_LAST_SCENE room_park]
       teleport player pub_exit
       # Set player look left
       set_angle player 180

This code says
1) Check (">") if the last room you were in (ESC_LAST_SCENE) is (eq) "room_park"
2) If so, "teleport" the "player" to the ``ESClocation`` called "pub_exit"

> 3) Then make the player face left (set_angle player 180)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3) Then make the player face left
```

I think, the relevant code part should be obvious.

> Now follow the same process to create a text file called "room_park.esc". Load

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now follow the same process to create an ESC script called "room_park.esc". Load
```

you will appear in the park. If you click on the left hand side of the park
you will appear in the doorway of the pub.

Additionally, due to the light map configured for the park scene, you should be
in shadows when you walk in the park, and get lighter when you walk under the
light.

Creating an exit using an ESCItem instead of an ESCExit
-------------------------------------------------------
As mentioned earlier, for more complex exit sequences, an ``ESCItem`` is used
rather than an ``ESCExit``.

If you wanted to create the pub door using an ``ESCItem`` you would:
* Create an ``ESCItem`` as a child of the ``ESCRoom``. Give it a Global ID of
"pub_door_item".

> * Create a new ESC script file (a text file with an ".esc" extension)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Create a new ESC script file
```

> and call it "pub_exit.esc". Where you place this file is up to you and how

Reviewer 2: I think, we should move this information about organizing ESC scripts (you can place the ESC scripts where you want) into the step by step chapter "The first run" as ESC is described there.

it makes sense with your project. You might choose to store it with the
room, or keep all your game's scripts together in a "scripts" folder.

> * In pub_exit.esc, add a ``:exit_scene`` event to our ESC file and within it,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* In pub_exit.esc, add an ``:exit_scene`` event to our ESC file and within it,
```

use the ``change_scene`` command to make the game switch from this pub room to
the  park room when the player "uses" the exit. You would add any other

> animations / speech / etc to this script that you wanted to happen when
> the player activates the exit. e.g.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
animation, dialog, etc. to this script that you want to be played when
the player activates the exit. e.g.
```

.. code-block::

    :exit_scene`
    say player "I'm leaving now."
    change_scene "res:///rooms/park.tscn"

* Change the "Esc Script" of the ESCItem to point to your script so Escoria

>   runs the   code you've just written when the user exits the scene using this

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  runs the code you've just written when the user exits the scene using this
```
